README.md, before:

#WesternMusicElements is a set of Objective-C classes that helps manipulating Western Musical Scales and Chords.

- Access the most commonly used [chords](https://github.com/fredericcormier/WesternMusicElements/wiki/Chords)  and [scales](https://github.com/fredericcormier/WesternMusicElements/wiki/Scales)  
- Easily add your own scales and chords via [a set of Ruby scripts] (https://github.com/fredericcormier/WesternMusicElements/wiki/Ruby-Scripts)  
- Uses ARC



## Quick Start:

Copy all the files in the WMLib folder to your project and  `#import "WMPool.h"` where needed.

The ***WMPool*** is a singleton instance that provides the most commonly used Western Chords and  Scales.  
You can add your own scales and chords using the Ruby facilities provided. (see the [wiki](https://github.com/fredericcormier/WesternMusicElements/wiki/Ruby-Scripts) for details )


You can ask for notes: 
```objective-c 
gSharp5 = [[WMPool pool]noteWithRoot:@"g" accidental:@"#" octave:5];  
c1 = [[WMPool pool]noteWithRoot:@"g" accidental:nil octave:1];
```
or more simply:  
```objective-c
[[WMPool pool]noteWithShortName:@"c1"];
```

You can also ask for *"Note Collections"*, that is , scales and chords, even inverted:   
```objective-c 
fSharp2Mixolydian = [[WMPool pool] scaleWithRoot:@"f" 
                                      accidental:@"#"
                                          octave:2 
                                        scaleMode:WMScaleModeMixolydian]; 
 
C3MajorChordInv2 = [[WMPool pool] chordWithRootShortName:@"C3" 
                                      chordType:WMChordTypeMajor
                                      inversion:WMChordInversionSecond];
```



The easiest calls are the one using ***"root note short names"*** like:  
```objective-c
[[WMPool pool] chordWithRootShortName:@"C3" 
                                      chordType:WMChordTypeMajor
                                      inversion:WMChordInversionRootPosition];
```
(Check the `WMPool.h`for what's in store)

##Note Short Name  
Root short names are formed of:

1. The note name
2. The accidental
3. The octave
 
The note name is written in "Letter Notation" and is not case sensitive.

The accidental, if any, is a "Sharp" noted "#". "Flat" is not supported. No accidental == natural.

Octaves are in the range of -1 to 9

Example of ***valid Note short names***:
`E-1` `F#-1` `C#8` `G5`

##Note Range

**WMPool** will provide notes in the range of:

- Notes: `C-1 to G9`
- Hertz: `8.176 to 12543.85`
- Midi Note Number: `0 to 127`

Of course, each **WMNote** embed that information, as well as the `cpspch` value used by programs like CSound. 

=========================================================================================================

Check the **WMPool.h** and **WMData.h** for more details 

#Western Musical Elements Test app screenshot:
<center>
![screenshot]  
(https://github.com/fredericcormier/WesternMusicElements/blob/master/Media/app_test_screenshot.png?raw=true)
</center>


#LICENSE 
----
Copyright (C) 2012 Frederic Cormier

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Updated readme to explain the purpose of this fork

README.md, after:

#WesternMusicElements is a set of Objective-C classes that helps manipulating Western Musical Scales and Chords.

- Access the most commonly used [chords](https://github.com/fredericcormier/WesternMusicElements/wiki/Chords)  and [scales](https://github.com/fredericcormier/WesternMusicElements/wiki/Scales)  
- Easily add your own scales and chords via [a set of Ruby scripts] (https://github.com/fredericcormier/WesternMusicElements/wiki/Ruby-Scripts)  
- Uses ARC


## Mark Wheeler's fork:
This fork is primarily for use in a project I'm working on but will include useful changes. Here's a summary of what's different:
- Middle C is now C3 (as it is in Ableton Live)
- You can specify flat notes
- Accidentals use correct unicode characters ♯ and ♭
- Minor tweaks to the list of scales


## Quick Start:

Copy all the files in the WMLib folder to your project and  `#import "WMPool.h"` where needed.

The ***WMPool*** is a singleton instance that provides the most commonly used Western Chords and  Scales.  
You can add your own scales and chords using the Ruby facilities provided. (see the [wiki](https://github.com/fredericcormier/WesternMusicElements/wiki/Ruby-Scripts) for details )


You can ask for notes: 
```objective-c 
gSharp5 = [[WMPool pool]noteWithRoot:@"g" accidental:@"#" octave:5];  
c1 = [[WMPool pool]noteWithRoot:@"g" accidental:nil octave:1];
```
or more simply:  
```objective-c
[[WMPool pool]noteWithShortName:@"c1"];
```

You can also ask for *"Note Collections"*, that is , scales and chords, even inverted:   
```objective-c 
fSharp2Mixolydian = [[WMPool pool] scaleWithRoot:@"f" 
                                      accidental:@"#"
                                          octave:2 
                                        scaleMode:WMScaleModeMixolydian]; 
 
C3MajorChordInv2 = [[WMPool pool] chordWithRootShortName:@"C3" 
                                      chordType:WMChordTypeMajor
                                      inversion:WMChordInversionSecond];
```



The easiest calls are the one using ***"root note short names"*** like:  
```objective-c
[[WMPool pool] chordWithRootShortName:@"C3" 
                                      chordType:WMChordTypeMajor
                                      inversion:WMChordInversionRootPosition];
```
(Check the `WMPool.h`for what's in store)

##Note Short Name  
Root short names are formed of:

1. The note name
2. The accidental
3. The octave
 
The note name is written in "Letter Notation" and is not case sensitive.

The accidental, if any, is a "Sharp" noted "#". "Flat" is not supported. No accidental == natural.

Octaves are in the range of -1 to 9

Example of ***valid Note short names***:
`E-1` `F#-1` `C#8` `G5`

##Note Range

**WMPool** will provide notes in the range of:

- Notes: `C-1 to G9`
- Hertz: `8.176 to 12543.85`
- Midi Note Number: `0 to 127`

Of course, each **WMNote** embed that information, as well as the `cpspch` value used by programs like CSound. 

=========================================================================================================

Check the **WMPool.h** and **WMData.h** for more details 

#Western Musical Elements Test app screenshot:
<center>
![screenshot]  
(https://github.com/fredericcormier/WesternMusicElements/blob/master/Media/app_test_screenshot.png?raw=true)
</center>


#LICENSE 
----
Copyright (C) 2012 Frederic Cormier

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
